I forgot to record the session, but I captured a few notes from the
meeting.

Attendees:

 - Jake Holland
 - Kyle Rose
 - Sam Hurst

(Brett Sheffield also sent apologies offline, and hopes to make it
next time.)

Agenda:

 * Welcome & Agenda-bash
 * Questions/comments on recent IETF 111 and upcoming TPAC
 * Discuss using QUIC and libnghq to solve the packet level encryption problem
5 minutes:      Schedule working session in 1-2 weeks for those
                who are interested.

Recommended reading:

 * https://github.com/bbc/nghq/blob/master/docs/public-api.md
 * https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-pardue-quic-http-mcast
   I've got a couple of points of confusion here that I'm hoping
   to clear up by digging on it over the next week or 2, and
   anyone who can help shed light here will be invited to do so.

After a brief "no particular questions or comments" about the IETF
meetings, we dove into details on the QUIC/nhgq implementation
questions.

Notable clarifications we covered included:

- the unidirectional streams don't need session establishment or alpn
- but it does need to get the push promises or it might throw things
  away. (Sam mentioned some unimplemented thoughts toward repeating
  the push promise later to cover losses/late starts better, and the
  same with headers)
- unicast recovery is (optionally) done at the app layer, not built
  into the library
- there's not a built-in concept of coupling between multicast and
  unicast streams, though there's ways to set the connection and
  session ids in the library and that might be a path to having one
- Sam explained that in DVB they've been aiming to support a satellite
  broadcast use case with no return path, so some of the design on the
  library has aimed toward that.
- There's not datagram support implemented now
  - I mentioned I was thinking datagram support would be a useful way
    to do a transparent port of existing UDP multicast apps, so I'd
    probably want to get that working.

The rough plan over the next couple of weeks is:

- bring up the example sender & receiver as-is
- make it use some encryption (the example just uses memcpy and passes
  the data in the clear in the encrypt/decrypt callbacks)
- try to get it running with the browser
  - this likely needs some browser API changes, where things will
    maybe get interesting, but as a starting point try to make the
    object payloads arrive at the app via the ReadableStream and

We did not schedule a working session, but might do so later as part
of step 3 of that plan.

Kyle had a late agenda-bash with draft-krose-multicast-security.  We
decided "as soon as practical" was the best time to raise it on
secdispatch, so he's going to kick that off after a few changes he
has pending, with Friday as the target.

We did not touch on the TPAC question, I expect we'll do that next
time instead.

