Present: Brett Sheffield, Chris Needham, Jake Holland, Kyle Rose, Michiel De Backker, Sam Hurst
 
Chair: Jake
 
Scribe: Chris
 
Topic: TPAC plans
 
Jake: We have a scheduled slot, hoping to get some new people to join. Not sure what to expect. Ideal would be line up some development work to experiment with the QUIC library. I haven't had time to do that so far. The demo video is up: https://www.w3.org/2021/10/TPAC/demos/multicast.html. I'll give intro, then go into the ongoing work, things we need to solve to integrate into browsers, on security.
 
Chris: Anyone we'd specifically want to try to bring in?
 
Jake: Harald Alvestrand has been supportive of the work, and has experience with WebRTC. A few people at the last IETF BAR BOF, not sure how much overlap with W3C members though. I'd like to get more people who can help with the browser integration questions to give feedback.
 
Chris: Probably the same people as on the blink-dev email thread
 
Jake: Anyone from Chrome or Firefox who can help describe potential obstacles
 
Brett: Who's working on it at the moment?
 
Jake: There have been people involved at Akamai from time to time, but right now I'm the only one.
 
Brett: We've had people say they're keeping an eye on it, but not getting involved in development. In terms of feedback from other people outside Akamai?
 
Jake: Some from IETF, at the BAR BOF, about 26 people. People were supportive, but not writing code.
 
Topic: IPv6
 
Brett: I'm quite enthusiastic. There's some overlap between my work and yours, on IPv6, multicast and transitional tunneling. I had a chat app using WebSockets with multicast in the background. Maybe we can do something with that.
 
Jake: On IPv6, ?? asked for this recently. They're setting up AMT relays and peer forwarding in their network. There's an IETF hackathon upcoming, early November.
 
Brett: Is that IPv4 only?
 
Jake: I believe it supports both v4 and v6. The gateway and AMT relay. I added IPv6 support a few years back, and it worked fine. I don't have any relays running yet, it's on the list. I was hoping to set one up for you to send VLC traffic. It's a useful test. The next step would be to render in a browser. It should in principle be similar to what WebCodecs does. How it handles missing packets is a question. Building that is an aim for the hackathon.
 
Jake: I also have what's shown in the demo video. A port of a TV receiver to WASM, running in the browser. That's a reliable transport, rebuilding the segments from the multicast data. They checksum checked before feeding them in, and there's a unicast fallback. The code isn't public though.
 
Jake: When we get to the QUIC implementation, that will be similar. There's a reliable transport that rebuilds segments after receiving over multicast, then play with MSE. It could be inside the XHR rather than WebTransport, where you'd have a ReadableStream. That's a different path in the implementation. I'd like to get it so that datagrams go through a ReadableStream path that could be used in WebTransport.
 
Sam: There's no datagram support in that yet.
 
Jake: It might not be hard to add v6 support. If I manage to get a v6 relay up, I'll share an update.
 
Brett: Our approach with Librecast is v6 only, which uses tunneling. If there's only v4 multicast we'd still tunnel to get v6 going. Some of the things we're doing require v6 such as 112 bits for group addresses.
 
Jake: In SSM I think you have only 31 bits.
 
Brett: You lose some bits if you're embedding the address there.
 
Jake: The part assigned to SSM is /96 with the top bit reserved
 
Brett: Some later RFC use more bits.
 
Jake: I'll find a reference - IANA considerations in RFC 4607.
 
Jake: We're doing SSM as ASM has been deprecated for interdomain multicast (RFC 8815)?
 
Brett: It's an acknowledgement that ASM doesn't work for inter-domain.
 
Jake: Would you use a v4 tunnel?
 
Brett: The multicast we use is v6 only, so if only v4 is available we'd tunnel. ipv4 unicast is sufficient
 
Jake: Let's follow-up offline. We do want v6 to work in the browser.
 
Topic: TPAC meetings
 
JakeL Not sure if we'll get a slot in WebTransport WG. We have an hour in Second Screen. Not sure
 
Chris: They're focused on discoveery on a local network. Potential collaborations with them?
 
Jake: Interested in the privacy issues. Privacy exposure footprint to the local network. Is there a threat model to exposing information on the local network.
 
https://github.com/w3c/secondscreen-wg/issues/3#issuecomment-935156371
 
Raised in the net-dev threat that there's different privacy aspect than with TLS, so the exposure footprint is an area of concern, and questions about how usable it may be.
 
The other issue to dicuss is the discovery of a join to the local network. The last-hop router will know where its routing streams. Exposure from discovery protocols on the network.
 
Brett: Didn't Apple have something recently about blocking multicast from apps, to prevent fingerprinting on the local network?
 
Jake: Yes, saw that.  I think it might be helpful to the security story. On those platforms, there's a mechanism to switch it off if there's abuse. Well-behaved developers register the purpose of their usage. If they misbehave, their app can be prevented from using the capability. It's not necessarily a full solution, but it helps address some concern. Untrusted apps could be blocked by the OS.
 
Chris: The Open Screen Protocol design was careful to avoid not exposing information, and decisions made on what information to share during disovery and after authentication. Could be valuable to learn from their approach.
 
Jake: I can imagine someone wants to subscribe to the same multicast stream from mutliple screens for synchronized playback. If that's the intent, multicast has some restrictios over WiFi, RFC 9119, soon to be published. Links in the GitHub comment. If anyone does have that in mind, not sure of the strategy for handling Wifi constraints.
 
Jake: Could make sense if there's lots of devices on the network. Could do with wired. 50 screens all showing the same thing could usefully be subscribed to the same multicast stream, even on Wifi
 
Jake: I'm hoping to get some of the Second Screen group members interested.
 
Michiel: They're publishing to browsers, are you also thinking of publishing from the browser?
 
Jake: So far it's receive only. Don't want to rule it out. Could be possible to subscribe to the same multicast stream from the outside, but you probably won't get gains if it's over Wifi. If it's on a wired network or potentially a cell network, it could be worthwhile.
 
Jake: It's why UDP sockets were turned off, web pages could use for a DDoS attack. Needs rate controls with some feedback channel. There's although authentication that's hard to do
 
Kyle: I can imagine a case in future where someone wants to use mutlicast to do user-to-user video conferencing. You'd be sending to a multicast group. There could be a case for allowing UDP packets to be sent to a multicast group address only, but needs protection. For SSM, need to ensure you can't spoof a source address. You don't want someone's browser to be able to inject packets into someone else's multicast. So there could be some cases that could be made safe, but receive only is reasonable for now.
 
Jake: That would be beyond the browser's capability, I think. Not doing outbound mutlicast here.
 
Brett: Allowing unicast outbound UDP is quite a risk, but outbound mutlicast UDP isnt' a smilar risk. Could be dropped by the router, can't do an amplification attack. Are we protecting against a threat that's not there? If TTL1 was necessary, we wouldn't be here now. Read-only works well if you're only thinking about video streaming. But for a chat application over multicast, you need to read and write.
 
Kyle: That's what I was thinking of. Send stream to everyone watching, rather than the hub and spoke model
 
Michiel: Ad networks could create shadow networks on your LAN for fingerprinting. Gets hairy quickly. Jake's probably right to keep to read only for now to avoid those concerns.
 
Kyle: I agree, just saying "never say never".
 
Jake: That's right, but it's not our focus.
 
Michiel: I try to generalise with what the second screen is doing. I suggested that to the WICG on that: https://discourse.wicg.io/t/idea-local-devices-api-lan-services/5056
 
Topic: Hackathon
 
Jake: We could try receiving VLC, pass to WebCodecs. Has anyone done that before?
 
Kyle: What's the structure of the hackathon?
 
Jake: It's similar to before, but remote. A champion registers it in the wiki page, notifies IETF. It's the week before the meeting. Can structure it how you want in the group. There are lightning talks to share what you did.
 
Jake: I'll send an update on that. It might be relevant use case for datagrams more than the QUIC work. The vision there is exising multicast capable things like VLC, and put something in the front, encode UDP packets, within certain constraints. You can turn that into a QUIC UDP datagram, build the hash, send to AMBI, send to browser and unpack and handle. From the browser point of view, it'll look the same as a raw UDP payload, with the QUIC part built around it. It opens the door to things that already exist. For performance, eed to batch datagrams when delivering to the API, and avoid copying. The demo currently uses a lot of CPU.
 
Michiel: Currently the JS API uses ReadableStream. Are you also thinking about direct handover to media APIs, such as painting to a canvas or a video element? I'd advocate for both.
 
Jake: Good suggestion, which also came up in the net-dev thread. Our charter says we'd look at that. Targeted APIs would be fine, but we're aiming at WebTransport first. With MSE, as long as you're building sem
 
Chris: WebCodecs for MSE is coming, so you could have multicast reception, decode using WebCodecs, pass to MSE for buffered playback.
 
Jake: Seems useful too, opens it up to streaming. I'd like to avoid cutting things out like chat, so want to still keep transport of HTTP objects for that use case. Datagrams is also handy. If MSE accepts a WebCodecs input, that might make.
 
Jake: How does WebCodecs handle unreliable transport?
 
Chris: I haven't tried using it, so don't know.
 
Michiel: May want to talk to WebRTC about it, as SRTP handles that.
 
Jake: Thank you.
 
[Adjourned]
